Source code is in bot-algo.py:

1)
We first create a list of all the legal moves we can make. For each legal move, we create a copy of the grid and simulate placing that legal move on the grid. We run BFS from the edges of the move and track information about the structure type, size of the structure, whether the structure is complete and if it will be complete if we make this move. Our bot then uses a point based system when evaluating this move. If the tile is a monastery, we add a base score of 4.5 points and an additional point for each neighbouring tile. If it's not a monastery, we add a bonus for this placement if it helps complete our existing monasteries. We penalise the move by subtracting points if it helps complete an opponent’s monastery. Next we check if this move has an edge which is a city. We first check if we own this city. If we do, we get the current base score of this city. We scale this base score by the probability of us completing the city. Then we add bonuses if we complete this city with this move, and add bonuses for shields in this city. If this tile placement causes us to extend an opponent’s city we add a penalty. Finally, we check the benefit added by roads for this tile placement. We value roads using a similar methodology to cities - we get the base score of the road right now, scale that by the probability of completion and add a bonus for completing the road. The size of the bonuses we add is dynamic. If we are in a losing position currently, we add larger bonuses to incentivise capturing assets and don’t worry about penalties as much. If we are in a winning position, we incentivise being cautious by adding bigger penalties and not adding big bonuses. 

2)
Meeples are placed firstly if they are in close proximity to opponent structures as this provides an opportunity for stealing. If there is no stealing potential, we find the base score of this edge and scale that by the probability of us completing the structure on that edge. We store all these scores in a list and pick the structure and edge which gained the highest score. We place the meeple if the score passes a threshold. The threshold is determined by how aggressive we want to play. Aggressiveness increases when we are far behind opponents.

3)
We optimize for making good moves as well as minimising run time by only considering legal tile placements and legal meeple placements when evaluating. We ensure we have a good evaluation of assets because we don’t simply consider their current value but also the probability of completing that structure by forecasting the tiles needed to complete that structure. Unlike some bots which may only look at the current value of positions, we make sure to see what they could be in the future which would give our bot an edge when expansions like fields are added. We improve time complexity by saving results of prior computations in our bot state (such as the currently unclaimed structures and claimed structures) which means we only do computations when we have to. 
